New page to document Asset Processor and Asset Builder Settings (#1642)
o3de/o3de.org: content/docs/user-guide/assets/asset-processor/settings.md

---

> linkTitle: Asset Processor Settings

Reviewer: Shortening link title for the ToC to match other AP topics.

```suggestion
linkTitle: Settings
```

title: Asset Processor Settings
description: Commandline settings for AssetProcessor and AssetBuilder
weight: 900
toc: true
---

> The Asset Processor and Asset Processor Batch expose a number of commandline settings that can be used when manually launching.

Reviewer 2: maybe a command line example of usage?

Author: Good suggestion, will add

|--------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------|
| project-name       | Name of the current project.                                        |
| project-cache-path | Full path to the project cache folder.                              |
| project-path       | Supplies the path to the project that the AP should use (required). | 
| engine-path        | Supplies the engine path to the engine.                             |

## Advanced Settings
You can also control the behavior using the following command line options:

| Setting                         | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                 | Notes                                    |
|---------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------|

> | waitOnLaunch                    | Briefly pauses Asset Processor during initialization. Useful if you want to attach a debugger.                                                                                                              | Defaults to false for AP, true for batch |

Reviewer 3: The comment says this is false for AP and true for batch by default.  Is that true?  I don't think APB normally pauses to wait for a debugger

Author: Opps, wrong line. Am still auditing AP vs AP Batch changes. Will update.

> | zeroAnalysisMode                | Enables using file modification time when examining source assets for processing.                                                                                                                           |                                          | 

Reviewer 3: This is true by default for AP GUI and false by default for AP Batch

Author: Thanks will add.

| enableQueryLogging              | Enables logging database queries.                                                                                                                                                                           |                                          |
| dependencyScanPattern (dsp)     | Scans assets that match the given pattern for missing product dependencies.                                                                                                                                 |                                          |
| fileDependencyScanPattern (fsp) | Used with `dependencyScanPattern` to farther filter the scan                                                                                                                                                |                                          |

> | additionalScanFolders.          | Used with `dependencyScanPattern` to farther filter the scan.                                                                                                                                               |                                          |

Reviewer 3: There probably shouldn't be a period included at the end of the argument name

Author: Good call, will fix.

---
linkTitle: Settings
title: Asset Processor Settings

> description: Commandline settings for AssetProcessor and AssetBuilder

Reviewer 4: I don't see settings for AssetBuilder in this page. Do we mean AssetProcessorBatch?

Author: Fixed. Good catch

weight: 900
toc: true
---

The Asset Processor and Asset Processor Batch expose a number of commandline settings that can be used when manually launching.

> For example, if you wanted to launch AssetProcessor manual on Windows but delay launch to attach a debugger:

Reviewer: nit

```suggestion
For example, if you want to manually launch Asset Processor on Windows but delay launch to attach a debugger:
```

```
AssetProcessor --project-path="C:/o3de/o3de/AutomatedTesting" --engine-path="C:/o3de/o3de" --waitOnLaunch
```

## General settings
When manually launching Asset Processor or Asset Processor Batch you can set the following general properties:

| Setting            | Description                                                         | Default value                                               |
|--------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------|
| project-name       | Name of the current project.                                        | The project name associated with the passed `project-path`. |
| project-cache-path | Full path to the project cache folder.                              | The cache path associated with the passed `project-path`.   |

> | project-path       | Supplies the path to the project that the AP should use (required). |                                                             |                                  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| project-path       | Supplies the path to the project that the Asset Processor should use (required). |                                                             |
```

| engine-path        | Supplies the engine path to the engine.                             | On Windows, to the engine registered with the project |

## Advanced settings
You can also control the behavior using the following command line options:

> | Setting                         | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                 | Notes                                                                                           |

Reviewer 4: I think the "Notes" can be renamed as "Default" to match the above table. Also it makes the purpose clearer to me.

| acceptInput                     | Enable external control messaging via the ControlRequestHandler, used with automated tests.                                                                                                                 |                                                                                                 |
| additionalScanFolders           | Used with `dependencyScanPattern` to farther filter the scan.                                                                                                                                               |                                                                                                 |
| debugOutput                     | When enabled, builders that support it will output debug information as product assets. Used primarily with scene files.                                                                                    |                                                                                                 |

> | dependencyScanMaxIteration      | Used to limit the number of recursive searches per line when running dependencyScanPattern.                                                                                                                 | Default is 800.                                                                                 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| dependencyScanMaxIteration      | Used to limit the number of recursive searches per line when running dependencyScanPattern.                                                                                                                 | 800                                                                                 |
```

| enableQueryLogging              | Enables logging database queries.                                                                                                                                                                           |                                                                                                 |
| fileDependencyScanPattern (fsp) | Used with `dependencyScanPattern` to farther filter the scan.                                                                                                                                               |                                                                                                 |
| help (h)                        | Displays all available commands and their description.                                                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                 |

> | sortJobsByDBSourceName          | When enabled, sorts pending jobs with equal priority and dependencies by database source name instead of job ID. Useful for automated tests to process assets in the same order each time.                  |                                                                                                 |

Reviewer 5: this is the default behavior now, and this flag has been removed

Author: @AMZN-stankowi Note this is targetting the 2205 release / main and not development.

| truncatefingerprint             | Truncates the fingerprint used for processed assets. Useful if you plan to compress product assets to share on another machine because some compression formats like zip will truncate file mod timestamps. |                                                                                                 |

> | waitOnLaunch                    | Briefly pauses Asset Processor during initialization. Useful if you want to attach a debugger.                                                                                                              | Defaults to off, if True then wait for 20s to aid debugger attach.                              |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| waitOnLaunch                    | Briefly pauses Asset Processor during initialization.  Waits for 20 seconds when true. Useful if you want to attach a debugger.                                                                                                              | false                             |
```

> | warningLevel                    | Configure the error and warning reporting level for AssetProcessor. 0 Default, 1 for fatal errors, 2 for fatal errors and warnings.                                                                         | Defaults to 0.                                                                                  |

Reviewer: Is 0 off? No warnings or fatal errors?

```suggestion
| warningLevel                    | Configure the error and warning reporting level for Asset Processor. 1 for fatal errors, 2 for fatal errors and warnings.                                                                         | 0                                                                                  |
```

Author: No 0 is accept the default settings for logging for O3DE, which I believe is log everything at Info level.

> | zeroAnalysisMode                | Enables using file modification time when examining source assets for processing.                                                                                                                           | AP defaults to true for new users, can be changed in UI for AP. Defaults to false for AP Batch. | 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| zeroAnalysisMode                | Use file modification time when examining source assets for processing.                                                                                                                           | Asset Processor defaults to true, and can be changed in Asset Processor's UI. Asset Processor Batch defaults to false. | 
```

| project-name | Name of the current project.                                        |
| project-cache-path | Full path to the project cache folder.                              |
| project-path | Supplies the path to the project that the AP should use (required). | 
| engine-path | Supplies the engine path to the engine.                             |

You can also control the behavior of Asset Processor or Asset Processor Batch using these settings:

| Setting                         | Description                                                                                                                                                                                         |
|---------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| waitOnLaunch                    | Briefly pauses Asset Processor during initializiation. Useful if you want to attach a debugger.                                                                                                     |

> | zeroAnalysisMode                | Enables using file modification time when examining source assets for processing.                                                                                                                   | 

Author: I can try and dig through the code, but unlike CVARs the defaults are not clearly defined, but set in disconnected code.

> | zeroAnalysisMode                | Enables using file modification time when examining source assets for processing.                                                                                                                   | 

Author: Added note

| enableQueryLogging              | Enables logging database queries.                                                                                                                                                                   |
| dependencyScanPattern (dsp)     | Scans assets that match the given pattern for missing product dependencies.                                                                                                                         |

> | fileDependencyScanPattern (fsp) | Used with `dependencyScanPattern` to farther filter the scan                                                                                                                                        |

Reviewer 5: nitpick: You're using a period at the end of the other descriptions, but not here

Author: Will fix

| dependencyScanMaxIteration      | Used to limit the number of recursive searches per line when running dependencyScanPattern.                                                                                                                 | Default is 800.                                                                                 |
| dependencyScanPattern (dsp)     | Scans assets that match the given pattern for missing product dependencies.                                                                                                                                 |                                                                                                 |
| enableQueryLogging              | Enables logging database queries.                                                                                                                                                                           |                                                                                                 |

> | fileDependencyScanPattern (fsp) | Used with `dependencyScanPattern` to farther filter the scan.                                                                                                                                               |                                                                                                 |

Reviewer 3: I think this should be "further" instead of "farther"

Author: Fixed. Copied typo from code comment. Nice catch
